We are now going to cover how to use
a data table to gather multiple outcomes
from a formula given a variable input.
After this demonstration,
you should be able to use a one way data
table to understand the range of outcomes.
For a given range of a variable input.
To continue our story,
we're going to analyze the impact
of flight related costs.
The forecasting team is looking to get
a better understanding of how fuel and
labor affect profitability in a proposed
new route from Chicago to Atlanta.
The operations team has determined
the minimum cost per mile is $30, and
the maximum cost per mile is $50,
depending on the various market factors.
The operations team has
also provided estimates for
the number of passengers per flight and
the revenue per passenger.
170 and 150 respectively.
We've summarized this information
in cells B113 through C120.
Using the information provided
by the operations team,
we've determined an estimated profit
per flight in cell C120, however,
recall that we would like to analyze how
profit is impacted by cost per flight.
This table only calculates the profits for
one value of cost per mile at a time.
However in reality, we are rarely
confident on an exact number for
the input for one of our variables.
This is where the data
table tool provides value,
as it's going to allow us to fluctuate
the value of the cost per mile variable.
We've provided the structure of the data
table and cells, F113 through G124.
Now we'll demonstrate how to
use a one way data table to
analyze the impact of
cost per mile on profit.
First, we need to link our
objective formula located in cell
C120 to the data table.
Select G113 and type the equal sign.
Then select C120 Next,
notice the range of values
in cells F114 through F124.
Each cell in this range represents
a particular value of our variable,
cost per mile,
which is located in cell C117.
When the data table is complete, for
each value in cost per mile range,
we'll have an outcome for
a formula cell C120.
Let's build the data table.
Using your mouse,
select cells F113, through G124.
Navigate to the data tab in the ribbon,
and
selected data table from
the what if analysis drop down.
We now are presented with two options,
row input cell and column input cell.
In this case, we have
a column-oriented one way data table,
because our range of values
is located in a column.
Our variable input is cost per mile, so
using the reference box select
cell C117 and click okay.
Each value in cells
G114 to G124 represents
the outcome of the formula in cells C120,
for
each respective value
in cells F114 to G124.
Notice that when cost per mile is $50,
profit falls to $0.
We've now demonstrated how
to use a one way data table,
to determine the range of
outcomes given a variable input.
In this case, cost per mile.
Now it's your turn to practice one way
data tables in the student workbook.
In the next video,
we'll demonstrate how to very two inputs,
using two-way data tables.
[MUSIC]